# buddhabrot
a program to generate buddhabrot images and some more

## install (linux only for now)
clone the repository somewhere on your computer.

On a terminal, cd in the repository, then build the program :

```sh
$ make
```

You may need to install packages depending of your distribution.

Also, you can configure witch compiler to use by opening the `Makefile` and setting the `CC` variable to the name of compiler (`clang` by default).

To clean all the intermediate files, use `make clean`; To clean all files generated by the build, use `make fclean`; To rebuild entierly, use `make re`.

## Generating a buddhabrot image

```sh
$ ./buddhabrot [OPTION]
```

This will generate a file named `out.pgm` on the current active directory.

## Options

 * `-w` Width : the width of the image (default 1000)
 * `-h` Height : the height of the image (default 1000)
 * `-s` Sample size : the number of point to find (default 200000)
 * `-m` Minimum : the minimum number of steps a point need to qualify (default 10)
 * `-M` Maximum : the maximum number of steps a point need to qualify (default 20)
 * `-t` Thread : number of thread. 0 for auto (default)

Example for a hight resolution image (width and height inverted to rotate the image afterward)

```sh
$ ./buddhabrot -w 4320 -h 7680 -s 2000000 -m 30 -M 100
```

## Algorithm

The program launch one thread per actual thread available on the computer (on auto).

For now, the program look at random point until it find `-s` points that escape the circle of radius 2 between `-m` and `-M` steps.

I'm working on another approch bsed on a tree exploration. This is should accelerate the render (~ 10x from my initial tests). However, this need a good algorithm to select where to explore and where not to in order to have a good visual without filling the RAM with useless data.

## Roadmap

 * more parameters
 * render of a specific part (already built-in, but no exposded)
 * fasters algorithms (ideas welcome)
 * multi-os support
 * save and load of intermediate steps (useful to make several render with the same points, or to put more work on a already computed step)
 * blending renders to generate those colorufull images (aka Nebulabrot).